add serverless-driver (#14612)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster-serverless.md

# Connect to Your TiDB Serverless Cluster

This document describes how to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster.

> **Tip:**
>
> To learn how to connect to a TiDB Dedicated cluster, see [Connect to Your TiDB Dedicated Cluster](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md).

## Connection methods

After your TiDB Serverless cluster is created on TiDB Cloud, you can connect to it via one of the following methods:

- Direct connections

>   TiDB Serverless is MySQL-compatible. You can connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster using any tool that supports MySQL connections, such as [MySQL client](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/shell/).

Reviewer: This is the link for MySQL Shell. Not MySQL Client.

- [Data Service (beta)](/tidb-cloud/data-service-overview.md)

  TiDB Serverless provides a Data Service feature that enables you to access TiDB Serverless data via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint.

- [Serverless Driver (beta)](/tidb-cloud/serverless-driver.md)

  TiDB Serverless provides Serverless Driver, a javascript driver that allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environments over HTTP.

- [Chat2Query (beta)](/tidb-cloud/explore-data-with-chat2query.md)

  TiDB Cloud is powered by artificial intelligence (AI). You can use Chat2Query (beta), an AI-powered SQL editor in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), to maximize your data value.

  In Chat2Query, you can either simply type `--` followed by your instructions to let AI generate SQL queries automatically or write SQL queries manually, and then run SQL queries against databases without a terminal. You can find the query results in tables intuitively and check the query logs easily.

> 

Reviewer: I think at the end of this part, we need a short conclusion comparing these methods: direct connections/serverless driver/data service.

# Connect to Your TiDB Serverless Cluster

This document describes how to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster.

> **Tip:**
>
> To learn how to connect to a TiDB Dedicated cluster, see [Connect to Your TiDB Dedicated Cluster](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md).

## Connection methods

After your TiDB Serverless cluster is created on TiDB Cloud, you can connect to it via one of the following methods:

- Direct connections

  Direct connections mean the MySQL native connection system over TCP. You can connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster using any tool that supports MySQL connection, such as [MySQL client](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql.html).

- [Data Service (beta)](/tidb-cloud/data-service-overview.md)

>   TiDB Serverless provides a Data Service feature that enables you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint. Unlike direct connections, Data Service accesses TiDB Serverless data via a RESTful API rather than raw SQL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  TiDB Cloud provides a Data Service feature that enables you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint. Unlike direct connections, Data Service accesses TiDB Serverless data via a RESTful API rather than raw SQL.
```

>   TiDB Serverless provides a Data Service feature that enables you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint. Unlike direct connections, Data Service accesses TiDB Serverless data via restful API rather than the raw SQL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  TiDB Serverless provides a Data Service feature that enables you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint. Unlike direct connections, Data Service accesses TiDB Serverless data via a RESTful API rather than the raw SQL.
```

>   Direct connections mean the MySQL native connection system over TCP, You can connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster using any tool that supports MySQL connection, such as [MySQL client](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Direct connections mean the MySQL native connection system over TCP. You can connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster using any tool that supports MySQL connection, such as [MySQL client](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql.html).
```

- [Serverless Driver (beta)](/tidb-cloud/serverless-driver.md)

>   TiDB Cloud provides a serverless driver for Javascript, which allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environments with the same experience as direct connections.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  TiDB Cloud provides a serverless driver for JavaScript, which allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environments with the same experience as direct connections.
```

>   TiDB Cloud provides a serverless driver, a javascript driver that allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environment with the same experience as direct connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  TiDB Cloud provides a serverless driver for Javascript, which allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environments with the same experience as direct connection.
```

>   TiDB Serverless provides a Data Service feature that enables you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint. Different from direct connections, Data Service access TiDB Serverless data via restful api rather than the raw SQL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  TiDB Serverless provides a Data Service feature that enables you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint. Unlike direct connections, Data Service accesses TiDB Serverless data via restful API rather than the raw SQL.
```

In the preceding connection methods, you can choose your desired one based on your needs:

| Connection method  | Protocol | Scenario                                                               |
|--------------------|----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Direct connections | TCP      | Long-running environment, such as Java, Node.js, and Python.             |
| Data Service       | HTTP     | All browser and application interactions.                              |

> | Serverless driver  | HTTP     | Edge environments such as Vercel Edge Function and Cloudflare Workers. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Serverless driver  | HTTP     | Edge environments such as [Vercel Edge Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/functions/edge-functions) and [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/). |
```

>   TiDB Serverless provides serverless driver, a javascript driver that allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environment with the same experience as direct connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  TiDB Cloud provides a serverless driver, a javascript driver that allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environment with the same experience as direct connection.
```

## Network

There are two network connection types for TiDB Serverless:

- [Private endpoint](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections-serverless.md) (recommended)

>   Private endpoint connection provides a private endpoint to allow SQL clients in your VPC to securely access services over AWS PrivateLink, which provides highly secure and one-way access to database services with simplified network management.

Reviewer 3: global comment: use 4-space indentation
```suggestion
    Private endpoint connection provides a private endpoint to allow SQL clients in your VPC to securely access services over AWS PrivateLink, which provides highly secure and one-way access to database services with simplified network management.
```

- [Public endpoint](/tidb-cloud/connect-via-standard-connection-serverless.md)

  The standard connection exposes a public endpoint, so you can connect to your TiDB cluster via a SQL client from your laptop.

>   TiDB Serverless supports [TLS connections](/tidb-cloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-clusters.md), which ensures the security of data transmission from your applications to TiDB clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  TiDB Serverless requires [TLS connections](/tidb-cloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-clusters.md), which ensures the security of data transmission from your applications to TiDB clusters.
```

The following table shows the network you can use in different connection methods:

| Connection method          | Network                      | Description                                                                                                          |
|----------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Direct connections         | Public or private endpoint   | Direct connections can be made via both public and private endpoints.                                                |

> | Data Service (beta)        | /                            | Accessing TiDB Serverless via Data Service (beta) is through an API key so there is no need to specify the network.     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Data Service (beta)        | /                            | Accessing TiDB Serverless via Data Service (beta) is through a RESTful API so there is no need to specify the network.     |
```

> | Data Service (beta)        | /                            | Accessing TiDB Serverless via Data Service (beta) is no need to specify the network.     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Data Service (beta)        | /                            | Accessing TiDB Serverless via Data Service (beta) does not need to specify the network type.     |
```

> | Serverless Driver (beta)   | Public endpoint              | Serverless Driver only supports connections via public endpoint.                                                  ||

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Serverless Driver (beta)   | Public endpoint              | Serverless Driver only supports connections via public endpoint.                                                  |
```

- [Serverless Driver (beta)](/tidb-cloud/serverless-driver.md)

  TiDB Serverless provides Serverless driver, a javascript driver that allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environments over HTTP.

**Choose a connection method**

- The direct connection means the MySQL native connection system over TCP. You can use it in any long-running environment, like Java, Node.js, Python, etc.
- The Data Service provides restful HTTP API for you. You can use it for all browser and application interactions.
- The serverless driver is useful in edge environments such as Vercel Edge Function and Cloudflare Workers.

## Network

There are two network connection types for TiDB Serverless:

- [Private endpoint](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections-serverless.md) (recommended)

  Private endpoint connection provides a private endpoint to allow SQL clients in your VPC to securely access services over AWS PrivateLink, which provides highly secure and one-way access to database services with simplified network management.

- [Public endpoint](/tidb-cloud/connect-via-standard-connection-serverless.md)

>   The standard connection exposes a public endpoint with traffic filters, so you can connect to your TiDB cluster via a SQL client from your laptop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The standard connection exposes a public endpoint, so you can connect to your TiDB cluster via a SQL client from your laptop.
```

# Connect to Your TiDB Serverless Cluster

> ## Connection Methods
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: see https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/14612/files#r1322319085

> This document introduces the methods to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document describes how to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster.
```

> After your TiDB Serverless cluster is created on TiDB Cloud, you can connect to it via one of the following methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Connection methods

After your TiDB Serverless cluster is created on TiDB Cloud, you can connect to it via one of the following methods:
```

|----------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Direct connections         | Public or private endpoint   | Direct connections can be made via both public and private endpoints.                                                |
| Data Service (beta)        | /                            | Accessing TiDB Serverless via Data Service (beta) is through API Key so there is no need to specify the network.     |
| Serverless Driver (beta)   | Public endpoint              | Serverless Driver only supports connections via public endpoint.                                                     |

## Choose a connection method

- The direct connection means the MySQL native connection system over TCP. You can use it in any long-running environment, like Java, Node.js, Python, etc.
- The Data Service provides restful HTTP API for you. You can use it for all browser and application interactions.

> - The serverless driver is useful in edge environments such as Vercel Edge Function and Cloudflare Workers.

Reviewer: I think we could emphasize SQL for direct connections, comparing with Data Service.
